---
layout: post
title:  "Titling a blog post before writing it"
date:   2014-09-27 11:59:00
categories: blog
thumbnail: "/img/watch.jpg"
youtube: "GIFdBp8rbtA"
---

Titling a blog post before writing it.

Working in an office from nine o’clock in the morning to some later time in the evening is not the dream promised by technology. But the opportunity to work in the role that I now have is more than I ever could have expected. On screen, I am a Software Engineer in the Engineering Department. Our company of 14 also has a Marketing Department of one, a Product Division of 14 and Operations or a ‘COO’. 

The Silicon Valley is the world capitol for anybody with a novel idea that requires a few million dollars to build and scale. I would like to be a Co-Founder, or the Product Division, or at least the man who comes up with such titles, departments divisions and so forth. None of these divisions or titles mean anything in the office, but nonetheless, somebody had to type them out in the HR software just to provide some sense of clarity in the blob that is a young software company. Somebody has to give titles to people and groups before those titles mean anything.

The problem with giving this blog post a title before I write it is just like summarizing the future before it’s happened. It is frustrating to transition from the 4 year cycle of rising from the bottom to the top of the group in High School or College, to a career that takes so much longer to build. So any thoughts I have about defining my career more concretely would be purely speculation. All that I can accurately predict is that it will go up and to the right. I never could have guessed that I would seek full-time employment only after moving to San Francisco on a whim two years after graduating. If the point of moving here was only to find a job, I probably would have stayed in New York.

I did contracting and built my own apps. Now I have a great job. So, it was a great idea to do all that contracting and to learn enough to build my own iOS apps so that now I have this job. If you want my job, that is one way to get it.

“Why you shouldn’t get a full time job right out of college, but instead do a lot of programming and design on your own and then get a job”

Yes, I think that title will do, but it is too long. So I will stick with the title that I made before I wrote this.