---
layout: post
title:  "Waking Up"
date:   2014-10-11 23:45:00
categories: blog
thumbnail: "/img/waking-up.jpg"
realpixels: "/img/waking-up-cover.jpg"
youtube: "xTPpzOdzjmQ"
---

I've been looking forward to reading [Waking Up by Sam Harris](http://www.audible.com/pd/Religion-Spirituality/Waking-Up-Audiobook/B00M9KCT12/ref=a_pd_Religi_c2_tweet) since I heard about it in June. I was waiting for another credit on Audible.com, but instead broke down and bought it after hearing this paragraph of the [first chapter](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/chapter-one) that he released for free.

> Despite the beauty of our world and the scope of human accomplishment, it is hard not to worry that the forces of chaos will triumph—not merely in the end but in every moment. Our pleasures, however refined or easily acquired, are by their very nature fleeting. They begin to subside the instant they arise, only to be replaced by fresh desires or feelings of discomfort. You can’t get enough of your favorite meal until, in the next moment, you find you are so stuffed as to nearly require the attention of a surgeon—and yet, by some quirk of physics, you still have room for dessert. The pleasure of dessert lasts a few seconds, and then the lingering taste in your mouth must be banished by a drink of water. The warmth of the sun feels wonderful on your skin, but soon it becomes too much of a good thing. A move to the shade brings immediate relief, but after a minute or two, the breeze is just a little too cold. Do you have a sweater in the car? Let’s take a look. Yes, there it is. You’re warm now, but you notice that your sweater has seen better days. Does it make you look carefree or disheveled? Perhaps it is time to go shopping for something new. And so it goes.

I admire him too much to steal the book. I hope that others will go through the same thought process with my work. People like him should have more of my money.
