---
layout: post
title:  "Uber didn’t begin with a car prototype"
date: 2016-01-26 14:30:00
categories: blog
thumbnail: "/img/instagram-thumbnail.png"
hero: "/img/uber-driverless.jpg"
author: "David Mazza"
---

Google has been researching and prototyping self-driving cars for over a decade now. Auto makers are slowly adding driver assistance features that look a lot like a car driving itself. There are rumors that Tesla and Apple are racing to sell the first self-driving car. Uber was likely founded with the ambition to beat all of them by building not just the car, but the first network of passengers. While the big guys were focused on the technology, Uber was competing with black-car limo services and fighting antiquated regulation in cities. Now Uber is the only company that is well suited for a world where most people will no longer own cars, because they don’t sell cars, they sell rides. Uber started out with very little technology, and certainly no car technology. They didn’t even start building driving directions until much later. They leveraged the iPhone and the demand for taxis that was already there. If you want to become the next Uber for X, it is worth imitating their focus on the first steps.

A new entrant in the on-demand service market shouldn't start by copying Uber, they should only build what is necessary to generate demand for the service. An app that connects service providers with customers needs to build a two-sided network. Building any network is hard, but building two networks at once that depend each other is even harder. Think about what each side wants: customers want easy and reliable access to the service, providers want a regular supply of work.

## What to build

### An app for customers
If customers expect something fast, an app is a great way to request it. Nobody wants to spend any more time in your app than they have to. Make signing up and requesting the service as easy as possible. For example, why ask for a password when a phone number is just as easy use for verification? Getting an Uber just requires a phone number and current location. After they make their first request, ask for credit card details while they wait. No fancy features needed at first either. A live ETA on a map is nice to have, but it doesn’t make the car arrive any faster. 

> All you need to build is an app that does two things


### Nothing but texts for providers
Building an app for providers won’t increase their supply of work, so why build an app when sending a text for each job can do just as well. This doesn’t even need to be automated at first. If you only have a few providers, have somebody send a text out for each request.

### Integration with payment tech
Let someone else collect credit cards and handle payment technology. Stripe or Braintree is great at this. Maybe giving Square readers to your providers makes more sense. Do whatever is easier at first and move on. Success or failure in gaining traction will have almost nothing to do with the way you collect credit cards, unless you make it difficult for customers. 

## How long will it take?
Let’s assume you use collect payment in person with something like Square, and you send texts manually to providers. All you need to build is an app that does two things: take a phone number and a location for each request. We still haven’t established reliability or trust with customers, but when you’re small that is easy to do by developing relationships with customers like any small business. Developing a rating and review system takes a lot of time and refinement. Start by asking customers for open-ended feedback over text. This will help you learn about the problems that arise, so that you can eventually build your review system around measuring those issues. You make what you measure, so be careful about what you measure. 

## What next
If your service has a variable cost, it might be easy to show an estimate for a request. If you have a luxury service that people like to brag about using, it should be easy to let customers share something when they make a request. Word of mouth is probably the most powerful way to expand the market, especially if you are competing against non-consumption. It’s hard to target customers with ads if they never knew they needed a puppy photographer on-demand.  
